Can this router acting as a PC
ping the core switches in VLAN 10?
so on router 1, sh ip int brief
you can see the IP addresses 10.1.10.11 cannot ping 10.1.10.1
answer is yes
so we lost the first ping because of ARP but the ping succeeded.
Can we ping switch 2?
Yes we can, so this PC can ping the 2 core switches in VLAN 10.
Can router 2 acting as a PC ping the 2 core switches?
sh ip int brief
IP address is 10.1.20.12 ping 10.1.20.1
that is the VLAN 20 IP address of switch 1, yes it can.
10.1.20.2 IP address of switch 2 in VLAN 20, yes it can
so these 2 PCs can ping both core switches in the relevant VLANs.
Can router 1 ping other IP addresses on the core switch?
So can it ping 20.1 as an example?
and the answer is no
because we haven’t configured any kind of default gateway
or static route on this router.
sh ip route only shows me the directly connected interface,
you don’t need routing to ping IP addresses in the same subnet
but I would need some kind of routing ability
to be able to ping IP addresses in different subnets.
now this router is acting as a PC
so we're not going to enable a routing protocol on it at the moment
but I would need to configure a default gateway
of one of these switches to allow the PC to ping other VLANs
I’m not gonna do that at the moment
because I wanna show you how to set up HSRP
a hot standby routing protocol later in the later video
on this 2 core switches to provide redundancy
when 1 of the switches goes down.
So the last thing to do is to save our configs
so I'll save the config on switch 1, switch 2, switch 3, and switch 4.
We have successfully configured trunks on all of these ports.
Now we’ve configured this interface, this interface
this interface and this interface as an access port in the relevant VLANs.